Create CONTRIBUTING.md (#27762)
TheOdinProject/curriculum: CONTRIBUTING.md

# The Odin Project Curriculum Contributing Guide

Thank you for expressing interest in contributing to The Odin Project (TOP) curriculum! Before continuing through this guide, be sure you've read our [general contributing guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/.github/blob/ac0adb6bd151dca53798776783c5604d31e3389e/CONTRIBUTING.md), as it contains information that is important for all of our repos.

This contributing guide assumes you have followed the instructions in our general contributing guide to fork and clone our curriculum repo.

> ## Table of Contents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Table of Contents

```

- [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Curriculum Linting](#curriculum-linting)

## How to Contribute

There are 2 main ways you can contribute to our curriculum:

1. If you're new to contributing to open-source, only need to edit 1 file, or if you just want to make a really quick pull request (PR), you can click the "Improve this lesson on GitHub" link found at the end of each lesson. This will open the lesson file in its "edit" mode, allowing you to make any edits and submit a PR all through GitHub.

> 2. If you're more experienced with contributing or need to edit more than 1 file, you can follow our instructions on [setting up a local clone](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/.github/blob/ac0adb6bd151dca53798776783c5604d31e3389e/CONTRIBUTING.md#setting-up-your-local-clone) from our general contributing guide. You should also read the sections that follow on how to open a PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If you're more experienced with contributing or need to edit more than 1 file, you can follow our instructions on [setting up a local clone](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/.github/blob/ac0adb6bd151dca53798776783c5604d31e3389e/CONTRIBUTING.md#setting-up-your-local-clone) from our general contributing guide. You should also read the sections that follow on how to open a PR.
```

Regardless of the way you choose to open a PR, while working on an existing or a new lesson you **must** follow our [Layout Style Guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/blob/main/LAYOUT_STYLE_GUIDE.md) to ensure the layout and formatting is consistent across our curriculum.

> Before submitting a PR for an existing or a new lesson, you must also use our [Lesson Preview Tool](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/preview) to ensure the lesson Markdown is correctly formatted and rendering properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before submitting a PR for any lesson, you must also use our [Lesson Preview Tool](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/preview) to ensure the lesson Markdown is correctly formatted and rendering properly.
```
Just a suggestion, your call. Though at least with the original, we wouldn't need the second indefinite article after "or".

## Curriculum Linting

To help enforce the layout specified in our layout style guide, we use [markdownlint](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint). Whenever a PR is opened or has updates made to it, a workflow will run to check any files changed in the PR against common rules as well as custom rules specific to TOP. To make the workflow easier, we also strongly suggest that users who have a local clone run this linter locally before committing any changes. There are 2 ways you can do so:

> 1. Install the [Markdownlint VSCode Plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DavidAnson.vscode-markdownlint). This plugin will automatically pickup our main configuration and flag issues with a squigly underline. Note that not the plugin will not currently flag issues with the structure of lessons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the [Markdownlint VSCode Plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DavidAnson.vscode-markdownlint). This plugin will automatically pick up our main configuration and flag issues with a squiggly underline. Note that the plugin will not currently flag issues with the structure of lessons or projects.
```

> Note that the plugin will not currently flag issues with the structure of lessons or projects.

I feel this could be a bit clearer as to what "the structure of lessons or projects" means? e.g. also mentioning it's the TOP004 rule, and/or that it's because the extension doesn't use the rules from the `(lesson|project).-*` configs

> 1. Install the `markdownlint-cli2` dependency. This will require you to have installed Node, which we cover in our Foundations path. Simply run `npm install` within the directory of your curriculum clone and you can run one of our 4 scripts to easily lint or fix files. Note that running these scripts without a supplied file path will result in all files being linted. You should only run these scripts on 1 specific file at a time to avoid polluting the terminal output.

Author: This depends on the PR I have up adding the dev dep of markdownlint getting merged. If it doesn't then we can revert this to the instructions on manually installing the dependency itself.

> 1. Install the `markdownlint-cli2` dependency. This will require you to have installed Node, which we cover in our Foundations path. Simply run `npm install` within the directory of your curriculum clone and you can run one of our 4 scripts to easily lint or fix files. Note that running these scripts without a supplied file path will result in all files being linted. You should only run these scripts on 1 specific file at a time to avoid polluting the terminal output.

Reviewer: Does running them without the file path lint/fix *all* files on your end?
According to the [markdownlint-cli2 docs](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint-cli2?tab=readme-ov-file#command-line), that would only occur if you specify `.` or `**` as the arg, and passing no arg just results in that help output showing (and no lint/fix action applied).
That's how it works on my end, and is definitely preferable behaviour of course.

Author: Oop you're right, updating

> 1. Install the `markdownlint-cli2` dependency. This will require you to have installed Node, which we cover in our Foundations path. Simply run `npm install` within the directory of your curriculum clone and you can run one of our 4 scripts to easily lint or fix files. Note that running these scripts without a supplied file path will result in all files being linted. You should only run these scripts on 1 specific file at a time to avoid polluting the terminal output.

Reviewer: > which we cover in our Foundations path.

Worth linking to the Node installations lesson here or not?

Author: I was considering it, but ended up not just to avoid having users still early on skipping to that lesson. May not be a huge deal I suppose, but that was at least why I didn't include a link.

Reviewer: That makes sense!

    - Lint lessons: `npm run lesson:lint -- "./path/to/lesson"`
    - Autofix lessons: `npm run lesson:fix -- "./path/to/lesson"`
    - Lint projects: `npm run project:lint -- "./path/to/project"`
    - Autofix projects: `npm run project:fix -- "./path/to/project"`

> With either of these two methods, keep in mind that not all issues that get flagged will have an autofix available. Some rules require fixes that are more depdenent on context and cannot - and should not - be automatically fixed, such as our custom rule `TOP001` for descriptive link text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With either of these two methods, keep in mind that not all issues that get flagged will have an autofix available. Some rules require fixes that are more dependent on context and cannot - and should not - be automatically fixed, such as our custom rule `TOP001` for descriptive link text.
```

# The Odin Project Curriculum Contributing Guide

> Thank you for expressing interest in contributing to The Odin Project (TOP) curriculum! Before continuing through this guide, be sure you've read our [general contributing guide](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/.github/blob/ac0adb6bd151dca53798776783c5604d31e3389e/CONTRIBUTING.md), as it contains information that is important for all of our repos.

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason this is linking to a specific commit instead of the version on the main branch (ie https://github.com/TheOdinProject/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)?

Author: Yep!

I copied the url from the wrong tab 😆

This contributing guide assumes you have followed the instructions in our general contributing guide to fork and clone our curriculum repo.

## Table of Contents

- [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Curriculum Linting](#curriculum-linting)

## How to Contribute

There are 2 main ways you can contribute to our curriculum:

1. If you're new to contributing to open-source, only need to edit 1 file, or if you just want to make a really quick pull request (PR), you can click the "Improve this lesson on GitHub" link found at the end of each lesson. This will open the lesson file in its "edit" mode, allowing you to make any edits and submit a PR all through GitHub.

> 1. If you're more experienced with contributing or need to edit more than 1 file, you can follow our instructions on [setting up a local clone](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/.github/blob/ac0adb6bd151dca53798776783c5604d31e3389e/CONTRIBUTING.md#setting-up-your-local-clone) from our general contributing guide. You should also read the sections that follow on how to open a PR.

Reviewer 2: Same as above
